Db audit log beta dedicated (#22889)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-auditing.md

> **Note:**
>
> Database audit logging is now in Public Preview for eligible clusters.
>

> > * **Public Preview Eligibility**: Version: TiDB v7.5.6+ or v8.5.2+.

Reviewer: The eligibility rule is easier to scan as a direct list item, and this avoids the markdownlint indentation failure.

```suggestion
> - TiDB version: v7.5.6 or later, or v8.5.2 or later.
```

> >   * **Azure Restriction**: Must be created after April 15, 2026.

Reviewer: Make the Azure condition a user-facing eligibility rule instead of a nested label.

```suggestion
> - For Azure clusters, the cluster must have been created after April 15, 2026.
```

> > * **Other Clusters**: For all other versions or configurations, the feature remains available upon request.

Reviewer: After the eligibility list, this reads more naturally as a sentence than as another labeled bullet.

```suggestion
> For all other versions or configurations, the feature remains available upon request.
```

#### Step 3. Enable audit logging

In the TiDB Cloud console, go back to the **Database Audit Log Storage Configuration** dialog box where you got the TiDB Cloud account ID and the External ID values, and then take the following steps:

1. In the **Bucket URI** field, enter the URI of your S3 bucket where the audit log files are to be written.
2. In the **Bucket Region** drop-down list, select the AWS region where the bucket locates.
3. In the **Role ARN** field, fill in the Role ARN value that you copied in [Step 2. Configure Amazon S3 access](#step-2-configure-amazon-s3-access).
4. Click **Test Connection and Save** to verify whether TiDB Cloud can access and write to the bucket. If the connection is successful, the dialog navigates to the next step for **Database Audit Logging Settings**.

> **Note:**

> > - After enabling audit logging, if you make any new changes to the bucket URI, location, or ARN, you must disable and re-enable audit logging.

Reviewer: Add the blank blockquote line before the list item so this note passes markdownlint and renders consistently.

```suggestion
>
> - After enabling audit logging, if you make any new changes to the bucket URI, location, or ARN, you must disable and re-enable audit logging.
```

1. In the **Bucket URI** field, enter your full GCS bucket name.
2. In the **Bucket Region** field, select the GCS region where the bucket locates.
3. Click **Test Connection and Save** to verify whether TiDB Cloud can access and write to the bucket. If the connection is successful, the dialog navigates to the next step for **Database Audit Logging Settings**.

> **Note:**

> > - After enabling audit logging, if you make any new changes to the bucket URI or location, you must disable and re-enable audit logging.

Reviewer: Add the blank blockquote line before the list item so this note passes markdownlint and renders consistently.

```suggestion
>
> - After enabling audit logging, if you make any new changes to the bucket URI or location, you must disable and re-enable audit logging.
```

2. Click the name of your target TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Settings** > **DB Audit Logging** in the left navigation pane.
3. On the **DB Audit Logging** page, click **Enable** in the upper-right corner.
4. In the **Enable Database Audit Logging** dialog, provide the blob URL and SAS token that you obtained from [Step 2. Configure Azure Blob access](#step-2-configure-azure-blob-storage-access):
    - In the **Blob URL** field, enter the URL of the container where audit logs will be stored.
    - In the **SAS Token** field, enter the SAS token for accessing the container.
5. Click **Test Connection and Save** to verify whether TiDB Cloud can access and write to the container. If the connection is successful, the dialog navigates to the next step for **Database Audit Logging Settings**.

> **Note:**
>
> After enabling audit logging, if you make new changes to the **Blob URL** or **SAS Token** fields, you must disable and re-enable audit logging.

> ## Database audit logging settings

Reviewer: Add a blank line after the heading to keep the Markdown structure valid.

```suggestion
## Database audit logging settings

```

> In the **Database Audit Logging Settings** step, configure the following items:

Reviewer: Because this section applies after any cloud-provider storage setup, make that handoff explicit for AWS, Google Cloud, and Azure users.

```suggestion
After configuring storage for your cloud provider, complete the **Database Audit Logging Settings** step:
```

3. Click **Save and Enable** to apply the settings and enable the audit logging.

> **Note:**
>
> If you disable log redaction, audit log files written to your cloud storage might contain sensitive information. This configuration is not recommended due to potential security risks.

## Specify auditing filter rules

After enabling audit logging, you must specify auditing filter rules to control which user access events to capture and write to audit logs. If no filter rules are specified, TiDB Cloud does not log anything.

To specify auditing filter rules for a cluster, take the following steps:

1. On the **DB Audit Logging** page, click **Add Filter Rule** in the **Audit Filters** section to add an audit filter rule.

2. In the **Add Filter Rule** dialog, configure the following items:

    - **Filter Name**: Enter a name for the filter rule.
    - **SQL User**: Enter the SQL user in the `<user>@<host>` format. The username and hostname can use `%` to match any value or `_` to match any single character. The `@` symbol and `<host>` are optional.
    - **Filter Events**: Select the events to log. For the supported filter events, see [Audit Filter Events](#audit-filter-events).

> 3. **Confirm** the filter rule.

Reviewer: This is a UI action, so make it a click instruction and tell users what the action does.

```suggestion
3. Click **Confirm** to add the filter rule.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > - Because audit logging consumes cluster resources, be prudent when specifying filter rules. To minimize the consumption, it is recommended that you specify filter rules to limit the scope of audit logging to specific users, and actions, where possible.

Reviewer: The new filter UI limits users by SQL user and event, so mentioning users and events is clearer than the current wording. This also removes the unnecessary comma.

```suggestion
> - Because audit logging consumes cluster resources, be prudent when specifying filter rules. To minimize resource usage, specify filter rules to limit audit logging to specific users and events where possible.
```

## Disable audit logging

If you no longer want to audit a cluster, take the following steps:

1. Navigate to the [**My TiDB**](https://tidbcloud.com/tidbs) page in the TiDB Cloud console, and then click the name of your target TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster.
2. In the left navigation pane, click **Settings** > **DB Audit Logging**.
3. In the **Database Audit Logging** section, click **...** next to **Settings**, and then click **Disable**.

> **Note:**
>
> Each time the size of the log file reaches 10 MiB, the log file will be pushed to the cloud storage bucket. Therefore, after the audit log is disabled, the log file whose size is smaller than 10 MiB will not be automatically pushed to the cloud storage bucket. To get the log file in this situation, contact [PingCAP support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

> The following table shows all event classes in database audit logging:

Reviewer: Line 271 links to `#audit-filter-events`, but there is no matching heading. As rendered, this table also falls under **Disable audit logging**, which makes the page structure confusing.

```suggestion
## Audit filter events

The following table shows all event classes in database audit logging:
```

|---------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `ID`            | The unique identifier that identifies the audit record of an operation.                        |
| `TIME`          | The timestamp of the audit record.                                                             |
| `EVENT`         | The event classes of the audit record. Multiple event types are separated by commas (`,`).     |
| `USER`          | The username of the audit record.                                                              |
| `ROLES`         | The roles of the user at the time of the operation.                                            |
| `CONNECTION_ID` | The identifier of the user's connection.                                                       |
| `TABLES`        | The accessed tables related to this audit record.                                              |
| `STATUS_CODE`   | The status code of the audit record. `1` means success, and `0` means failure.                |
| `KEYSPACE_NAME` | The keyspace name of the audit record.                                                        |

> | `SERVERLESS_TENANT_ID`           | The ID of the serverless tenant that the {{{ .essential }}} instance belongs to.                 |

Reviewer: This is the Dedicated audit logging page and the prerequisites already direct Essential users to a separate document. 

```suggestion
```

> | `SERVERLESS_PROJECT_ID`          | The ID of the serverless project that the {{{ .essential }}} instance belongs to.                |

Reviewer: Same issue as above: this serverless-only field belongs in the Essential audit logging doc, not the Dedicated doc.

```suggestion
```

> | `SERVERLESS_CLUSTER_ID`          | The ID of the serverless {{{ .essential }}} instance that the audit record belongs to.           |

Reviewer: Same issue as above: this serverless-only field belongs in the Essential audit logging doc, not the Dedicated doc.

```suggestion
```
